---
layout: handbook-page-toc
title: "Recruiting Process - Candidate Experience Specialist Tasks"
---

## On this page
{:.no_toc .hidden-md .hidden-lg}

- TOC
{:toc .hidden-md .hidden-lg}

## Recruiting Process Framework - Candidate Experience Specialist Tasks
{: #framework-coord}

### Schedule first interview

Once a candidate has provided their availability in Greenhouse, the Candidate Experience Specialist will utilize the internal [hiring processes repository](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/people-ops/hiring-processes) to determine scheduling needs. If the repo is outdated or you are unsure of the interview process, reach out to the recruiter.

### Schedule team interviews

Once a candidate has provided their availability in Greenhouse for the next step in the interview process, the Candidate Experience Specialist will utilize the internal [hiring processes repository](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/people-ops/hiring-processes) and schedule all interviews in accordance with the interview plan. The candidate is moved to the next step in the interview plan by a yes or strong yes scorecard.  When scheduling multiple interviews, in the confirmation email screen, click on each calendar invite and edit the text to read: "Interview with (insert name of interviewer) at GitLab".   
The Candidate Experience Specialist should be sure to inform the candidate that each subsequent interview is contingent on the success of the prior interview.

Any candidates who receive a no or definitely not scorecard should be discussed with the Recruiter and the Hiring Manager before declining.

#### Executive Interview Scheduling

For Directors and above with Executive Business Admins:

   1. Prior to candidates moving to the Executive interview stage the Candidate Experience Specialist (CES) ensures the candidate's profile contains a resume/cv,  contact phone number and feedback from prior interviews.
   1. The CES then moves the candidate to Executive Stage in Greenhouse (if applicable).
   1. The CES requests availability from the candidate.
   1. Once the availability is back from the candidate the CES will ping [the appropriate Executive Business Admin (EBA)](/handbook/eba/#executive-business-administrator-team) in the Greenhouse notes section and will include any relevant details such as internal, timezone or high priority.
   1. The EBA will schedule the interview using a unique zoom link, generated by the EBA, and will send out the interview confirmation email to the candidate with a cc to the candidate's CES.
       * For the EVPE, all interviews should be scheduled for 60 minutes, the EBA will not use "speedy meetings" for EVPE's interviews.
   1. If the EBA is unable to find a suitable time within the candidate's given availability the EBA should suggest times that will work, see the next section for details.

For the VP of Alliances, VP of Commercial Sales, VP of Customer Success, VP of Enterprise Sales, VP of Field Operations and the VP of Worldwide Channels:

   1. Prior to candidates moving to the Executive interview stage the Candidate Experience Specialist (CES) ensures the candidate's profile contains a resume/cv,  contact phone number and feedback from prior interviews.
   1. The CES then moves the candidate to Executive Stage in Greenhouse (if applicable).
   1. The CES pings [the appropriate Executive Business Admin (EBA)](/handbook/eba/#executive-business-administrator-team) in the Greenhouse notes section requesting interview options and will include any relevant details such as internal, timezone or high priority.
   1. The EBA will @ mention the CES in the Greenhouse note section with approximately 3 interview options and specify the timezone the options are given in.
   1. The CES sends the candidate the suggested times using the Candidate Availability for Executive Interviews email template.
   1. After the Candidate responds indicating the time that works for them the CES schedules the interview and uses the interviewer's personal zoom link.
   1. The CES sends the interview confirmation email with a cc to the EBA.

If you have any questions about the process, please post in #eba-team slack channel and @ mention the EBA to the CEO.

#### Using the Candidate Guide 

Please ensure you have the [guide chrome extension](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/resource-button/ikeemflbkbdhkgmgbdpeapmnnggbfogd) installed on your computer. 

**Preparing interviewers on Guide website**

1. Login on guide.resource.io
1. Navigate to the Team tab (it will take a few minutes to load)
1. Find the first interviewer that the candidate will meet and click on the profile (if there are double profiles, make sure to select the one that only has the slack logo)
1. Copy and paste the interviewer's GitLab Team Page bio full url (text box does not support links) into the 'Bio' box
1. If the GitLab team member has a LinkedIn profile linked on their GitLab Team Page bio, also place that into the 'LinkedIn URL' box
1. If there is no LinkedIn profile on the GitLab Team Page bio, reach out via Slack to the interviewer to get their LinkedIn 
1. Follow the above steps for all the interviewers on the hiring team - doing this will prevent more manual work on a per candidate basis 

**How to send out a Guide to a candidate for the first time via Greenhouse**

1. Once you have scheduled the interviews that need to be scheduled, click on the guide chrome extension in the upper right corner. 
1. Select which Guide template you would like to use from the drop-down menu in the “Guide” box
1. Please make sure the Application Review, Qualified and Justification stages are hidden by selecting the 'eye' next to those stages and making sure there is a line through it
1. On the Team Interview stage in the Guide, you will need to do three things
	1. Select the ‘pencil’ icon next to each interview and copy/paste the zoom link into the Remote Instructions box
	1. While in that same edit window, update the numbers in front of the interview to reflect which interview it is in the stage (example: If you scheduled the first interview while there are 5 interviews within the Team Interview stage, the number in front of the scheduled interview should be 1 of 5, so on and so forth).  
	1. If the interview name is something odd or has the names of all the interviewers that were possible, you will need to update the name of the interview to be just the interviewer who is scheduled. If you know what the interview will be about, feel free to put those details into the Description box. 
1. Select Share
1. The ‘To’ field should automatically populate with the candidate’s email address. 
1. Select ‘Default Template’ from the Email Template options
1. Remove the cc’d email addresses
1. Press Send
1. To make the chrome extension go away, click on the icon in the upper right corner again
1. After the Guide is sent, in Greenhouse, select the dropdown where you go to request availability, confirmation, etc. and select the ‘Confirmation Sent’

**How to send out an updated Guide if there was a change/reschedule**

1. If you had to make a change to an interview, whether that is a cancel or reschedule and need to let the candidate know that there have been changes, you will need to resend the Guide.
1. While in the candidate’s greenhouse profile, click on the Guide extension
1. All of your previous manual updates should still be in the guide so there won’t be any need to re-do the manual steps
1. Select ‘Share again’
1. Select ‘Interview Changes Template’
1. Press ‘Send’

#### Interview Reschedule Requests and Other Communication to the CES Email

The CES team utilizes [GitLab Service Desk](/product/service-desk/) to track incoming emails to the CES email alias.

1. Under this [CES Service Desk Project](https://gitlab.com/gl-recruiting/ces-service-desk) set up the proper notifications
   - Click on the bell icon on the top right next to Star and Clone
   - Go to Custom Settings
   - Check "New issue"
   - Closeout the window
1. On the left-side menu bar click Issues
   - This is where all our incoming CES emails will create an issue. You'll get an alert when someone sends an email to the CES email alias. Any "emails" that need to be addressed will be an open issue listed within this project.
1. Click on the new Issue
1. Assign it to yourself on the right-side toolbar
1. Read the Issue message
1. Add the appropriate label
1. Respond to the "email" by adding comments to the issue (be sure to enter comments as you would an email to the candidate)
   - The response might be as simple as Dear x, thank you for giving the team a heads up on the change of your schedule. I've canceled your interview and we will reach out to reschedule after taking a look at schedules.
1. If this one comment address the entire message and the Application Tracking System (ATS) is the tool needed, add a comment and close the issue
   - If the one comment does not address the entire message then only select comment.
1. Navigate to the ATS, if you are unable to reschedule or reset-up yourself tag the appropriate CES in the applicable greenhouse profile notes and copy the issue link in the comment (i.e. @Jane please reschedule with John per https:xxxxx)

There may be situations where the CES email is used to thank the team or to send a follow-up note. In those cases, we would copy the text of the issue to forward to the appropriate parties through a greenhouse profile at mention.

### Initiate background check

Once notified by the recruiter, the Candidate Experience Specialist will [initiate a background check](/handbook/people-group/people-policy-directory/#background-checks) for the candidate. The Candidate Experience Specialist will continue to monitor the background check until finalized, utlizing the follow-up feature in Greenhouse to ensure the background check is complete and uploaded into BambooHR if hired.

For guidance on reviewing Background checks see [this page](/handbook/people-group/people-policy-directory/#background-checks).

#### Initiating a Background Check through Greenhouse

**US Candidates Only**

1. Log in to [Greenhouse](https://app2.greenhouse.io/dashboard) and go to the candidate's profile.
1. Click the "Private" tab.
1. Click "Export to TalentWise".
1. Click "Complete Report", which will redirect you to the Sterling website.
1. Scroll down and click "Add Screening".
1. Next to "Comprehensive Criminal", click on "Ticket". 
   - If you need to run a financial check as well for Finance team members, you will need to submit a second ticket. 
      1. After you submit a ticket for the comprehensive criminal check, navigate back to the candidate's SterlingONE profile.
      1. Click "Add Screening".
      1. Next to "Federal Criminal District Search" click "Ticket".
1. Check off that you agree to your obligations as a user.
1. Under "Disclosure and Authorization Options", select the first option to have Sterling send the candidate a disclosure form.
1. Click "Generate Ticket".

#### Initiating a Background Check through Sterling Talent Solutions

**US Candidates Only**

1. Log in to [Sterling](https://www.talentwise.com/screening/login.php) and select "Quick Launch".
1. Click "Launch Screening".
1. Next to "Comprehensive Criminal" click on "Ticket". If you need to run a credit check as well, after you click "Ticket" click "Add Products" on the right and search for "Federal Criminal Check".
1. Check off that you agree to your obligations as a user.
1. Enter the candidate's name and personal email address.
1. Select the first option to have Sterling send the candidate a disclosure form, and click "Generate Ticket".

**Non-US Candidates Only**

1. Log in to [Sterling](https://secure.sterlingdirect.com/login/Default.aspx) and E-invite the candidate by inputting their email address.
1. Under "Applicant Information" enter in the candidate's first and last name, as well as their email address to confirm.
1. Next, select "International" from the "Job Position" drop down menu.
1. Next, select "A La Carte" from the "Screening Packing".
1. After that, you will select "Criminal-International". A drop down menu will appear, and you will select the country the candidate is located in. Then click "Add"
1. If you are submitting a background check for a candidate located in Japan, you will select "GlobeX" instead of "Criminal-International". Then select "Japan" and click "Add"
1. Make sure the criminal check with country of the candidate is included in the "Search" box.
1. Finally, scroll to the bottom of the page and click "Send"

### Speaking with TMRG members in the hiring process

Our hiring process includes an **optional** step where candidates can request to meet with an TMRG team member. Candidates can request this at any time throughout the process, we will also proactively offer this to a candidate when they reach the reference check stage. Whether or not the candidate decides to take us up on this offer will have no impact on our overall hiring decision.

When a candidate requests to meet with an TMRG team member, their Candidate Experience Specialist will do the following:
1. Share a message in the respective TMRG Slack channel. To aide with scheduling, the message will include the candidate’s time zone and a request for volunteers who would be willing to speak to that person for a 25-minute Zoom call. 
   - Below are the slack channels you can ask for volunteers in  
      - #lgbtq
      - #women
      - #minoritiesintech
      - #diverse_ability
      - #gender-minorities-employee-resource-group
      - 	#generational_understanding

1. Once a volunteer has been found the Candidate Experience Specialist will send the candidate the 'TMRG Opportunity' email template. The CES will need to get the TMRG members’ Calendly link and GitLab team page profile.

As a GitLab team member taking part in these calls, we advise you to start with a short introduction to you and your role here at GitLab. From here, we advise you to let the candidate lead the conversation as the goal is for you to answer their questions and offer insight into how we work.

These calls don’t require you to submit a scorecard in Greenhouse. If a candidate mentions something that you see as a red flag (e.g. they outline a past action of theirs that goes against our values) or share something that would help us set them up for success, we advise you to share the details of this with the hiring manager for the role they’re interviewing for. It will be the responsibility of the Hiring Manager to review this and decide whether we need to alter the hiring or offer process for the candidate.


### Send contract

[See Candidate Experience Specialist Contract Processes section of the handbook](/handbook/hiring/recruiting-framework/ces-contract-processes)

One person from the recruiting team (typically the [Candidate Experience Specialists](/job-families/people-ops/candidate-experience/)) will prepare the contract. While the Candidate Experience Specialist will prioritize a contract above other tasks, the expected turn around on the task is 1 business day. If the contract is time-sensitive, ping the CES team on the candidate's Greenhouse profile and provide context for the rush. If the Candidate Experience Specialist cannot meet the 1 business day they will inform the recruiter via Greenhouse and will provide context.

   1. Check all aspects of the offer:
      - Do we have the new team members' legal name in their profile?
      - Is the new team members' address listed on the details page?
      - What contract type and entity are required based upon location and offer details?
      - Is it clear how many (if any) stock options this person should receive?
      - Is all necessary information (start date, salary, location, etc.) up to date?
      - Does the new team member need a work permit or visa, or require an update to them before a start date can be agreed?
      - Has the signatory been determined by the Candidate Experience Specialist and updated?
      - Has the Entity been selected based on the New Hire's location?
   1. [Generate the contract within Greenhouse](/handbook/hiring/recruiting-framework/ces-contract-processes) using a template based on the details found in the offer package.
   1. Contact the recruiter or new team member to gather any missing pieces of information (note: the address can be found on the background check information page).
   2. The Signatory will be either the Recruiting Manager, VP of Recruiting, or the Chief People Officer. This can be determinted by the Candidate Expereince Specialist sending a message to the Contracts to Sign channel in Slack.
   3. The entity will be selected based on the new hire's location.
   1. Ensure that, if the contract was created outside of Greenhouse, the contract has been reviewed and approved by the Senior Director of Legal Affairs or a Total Rewards Analyst.
   1. [Stage the contract in DocuSign from within Greenhouse](/handbook/hiring/recruiting-framework/ces-contract-processes), which emails the contract to the signing parties, with the recruiter, recruiting manager, and the hiring manager cc'd. It will be sent to the designated signatory as previously determined in Offer Details.
   1. When the contract is signed by all parties, the Candidate Experience Specialist will verify that the start date in Greenhouse is correct.
     - Ensure the candidate has completed the PIAA section with either a `Yes` and the specific details **or** `None`. (Its important that it is not just a GitLab or Github link and more specific info.) 
     - If the candidate has specified a `Yes` and the specific details, make the People Experience team aware in our private group slack channel to kick off approval process.
   1. **Before marking the candidate as hired** the Candidate Experience Specialist will reject the candidate from any other active roles including roles for which they are a prospect (without sending a rejection email). _NOTE: If this step is skipped, the profile will not be exported to Bamboo HR when the candidate is marked as hired._ 
   1. **Before marking the candidate as hired** the CES will ping the recruiter and give them 24 hours to contact/reject all other active candidates. Once this is complete, the CES can proceed with hiring in GH. 
   1. **Before marking the candidate as hired** the CES will verify if the listed Recruiter and Coordinator in the `Details` >  `Source & Responsibility` section of the candidate's profile is correct to ensure accuracy in reporting.
   1. The CES will mark the candidate as "Hired" in Greenhouse: _when prompted, select the option to close the req._ Please note, the new hire's BambooHR profile will be generated automatically by the [Greenhouse to BambooHR sync](/handbook/people-group/engineering/gh-bhr-sync/) that runs every 15 minutes.
   1. Once the new hire's profile in BambooHR is generated, The Candidate Experience Specialist will upload the signed contract and the completed background check into the BambooHR profile.
   1. The Candidate Experience Specialist will send an email to total-rewards@gitlab with any variations in contract language (for example a draw). Compensation will sync with Payroll and Sales Ops for any necessary notifications on payment types.
   1. The Candidate Experience Specialist will email the new team member the Welcome Email from Greenhouse with a Cc to the recruiter, IT Ops and hiring manager.  For new team members in USA, use 'GitLab Welcome - US only' template.  For team members located outside the US, use 'GitLab Welcome - non US' template
      * Instructions on the [Notebook Ordering Process](/handbook/business-ops/team-member-enablement/onboarding-access-requests/#laptops) are included with this email.
   1. The recruiter will unpublish the vacancy in Greenhouse for the internal job board and disposition any remaining candidates if necessary. Once complete, the recruiter will ping the Candidate Experience Specialist to close the role or close the role themselves.
   1. The recruiter should create a MR on the [Careers page](/jobs/careers/) to remove the vacancy from the list. The CES should audit that this step was complete.
   1. Should the start date change after the welcome email is sent please see the required steps [here](/handbook/hiring/recruiting-framework/ces-contract-processes/#how-to-update-a-start-date-after-the-contract-is-signed).
   1. Exception to the start date and onboarding date alignment: If a new team member requires a specific start date for legal reasons (cannot have break in employment) but the People Experience Team cannot start onboarding on that specific day (because of Public Holiday), the Candidate Experience Specialist can notify the People Experience team in the private Slack channel `people-exp_ces`. The Contract, Greenhouse and BambooHR should reflect the same start date regardless of the actual onboarding date. However the GitLab Onboarding Tracker should reflect the actual onboarding date. 

It is **important** that the Candidate Experience Specialist CES notifies the People Experience Team of any important changes regarding the new team member, which also ensures the new team members are handed off properly to the People Experience Team.

### Mid-Point Check-In Follow-up

The Candidate Experience Specialist will set up a delay send email using the "GitLab Helpful Links - Checking In" email template in GreenHouse. The delay should be set up for halfway between the contract being signed and the start date.
   1. Navigate to the Candidate's profile in GreenHouse.
   1. Under Tools Email Candidate
   1. From the Template drop-down select: GitLab Helpful Links - Checking In
   1. From the Send email when drop-down select: Pick a custom time...
   1. From the calendar select a future date and time, halfway between now and the Candidate's start date.
   1. Check Schedule Email.

If necessary you may cancel the email, which is now showing under the Email Candidate option.

### Next Steps

People Experience Associate will create the onboarding issue and start the [onboarding tasks](/handbook/people-group/general-onboarding/onboarding-processes/) no later than one week before the new team member joins. Should a contract not be signed prior to 4 working days from the start date, a new start date will be required.

For questions about the new team member's onboarding status, you can @mention them in the `#peopleops-confidential` Slack channel.

For questions about the new team member's laptop, ping [IT Ops](#it-ops) in Slack. If the questions arise through email, forward the email to itops@gitlab.com and ping IT Ops in #it-ops Slack, and @it-ops-team too due to volume.

### Interview Reimbursement Process

For candidates requesting [interview reimbursment](/handbook/hiring/interviewing/#reimbursement-for-interviewing-with-gitlab) the CES team will partner with the Account Payable (AP) team to ensure requests are processed confidentially and in a timely manner. AP and the CES team utilize [GitLab Service Desk](/product/service-desk/) to track incoming emails to the Interviews@gitlab.com email.

Under the [Interview Reimbursement Service Desk](https://gitlab.com/interview-reimbursement/ap-ces/issues) set up the proper notifications
   - Click on the bell icon on the top right next to Star and Clone
   - Go to Custom Settings
   - Check "New issue"
   - Closeout the window

Additional process details can be found on the [project README page](https://gitlab.com/interview-reimbursement/ap-ces/blob/master/README.md).
